Jacob1's Mod, tpt's longest lasting and most popular mod! My overall goal 
isn't to add a bunch of elements you can forget about, it's to create a 
more stable tpt version without many bugs and lots of new features not fit for 
the officiel version; like multiple tabs, an updated save preview and moving 
solids. It it based off the older codebase of tpt version 83, back when things 
were in C and simpler; this allows me to do things how I want without the few 
small but unfixable bugs tpt++ has.

The mod updates whenever I feel like it. Don't ignore the update notifications 
like you do in other mods though, this mod actually has it's own in game 
updater, hosted at mniip.com/jacob1/. Typically there is an update, no matter 
how small, once a month, although that is constantly changing as my schedule 
and interest in working on the mod changes. All the changes made to tpt during 
it's multiple month breaks between versions are quickly backported into the 
mod, making it much more up to date and quicker to test new official features.

When you first start up the mod, it might look a lot different (or the same, 
if you remember what TPT used to look like before the rewrite). Everything 
functions exactly the same though. There are a few areas you may want to look 
at to see the new features. The main one is the favorites menu, shown by the 
blurry 'J' icon on the bottom right. This is the first feature added to the 
mod, and has functioned exactly the same to this day. Another place is the 
FAV2 menu, accessed by clicking the rightmost 'MORE' button in the favorites 
menu. You can find many options and submenus in here, all in the odd 
element button format. Elsewhere, if you click the 'T' quickoption in the top 
right you can access the 'tabs' feature. Other changes can be seen in the 
redone console or in the save preview. An in detail explanation of these 
features and others are provided below.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------
------------------------------------Credits-----------------------------------
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Special Thanks
mniip - hosts the update server
iam4722202468 - made the bug font icon / good troll friend
cracker64 - made TPTMP, and hosts the TPTMP server


Things in my mod suggested by other people:
Atrayin - Powered Portals, RAZR
OmegaSupreme - Animated LCRY
Videogamer555 - New heat displays
disturbed666 (aka grandmaster) - A way to turn PHOT into ELEC (but I used PINV instead of TESC)
Dynotec - new statistics
therocketeer - smudge tool
cip - INWR with tmp of 1 doesn't conduct to SWCH
BoredInSchool - fusion
tommig - VOID ctypes
Galacticruler - SING can emit gravity instead of pressure (set tmp2 to 1, or 2 for both)
Joeboy25 - AMTR ctypes
baizuo - Multiple element highlights
The-Fall - GEL and SPNG can absorb water from more elements (ex. PSTE + SPNG -> CLST)
GIGATeun - GRVI (gravitons)
minecraft-physics - DRAY (duplicator ray)


2014 April fools joke element suggestions:
therocketeer - DKLQ (dinosaur knee liquid)
CatAnimation - BLOD/COCO/COCJ/LOLZ2
Darthanihlus - POOP
cracker64 - CMD
bowserinator - DMD2/BDMD (breakable diamond)
Kikinicij - BATT (ban all the things)
Nakriollag - DIMT




------------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------Explanations---------------------------------
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Favorites Menu / Submenus
The favorites menu has been the center of most things in the mod since the 
beginning. To "favorite" an element, ctrl+shift click it from any menu, and 
it will get a green box around it. To unfavorite it, ctrl+shift+right click 
it instead. Any recently used elements, even from past sessions, also will 
appear in the menu, but they don't stay forever.  If you click the MORE 
button, a new menu will appear with more options. HUD's are customizable using 
the HUD2 button. The FIND button colors whatever element you have selected 
red, and dims everything else. There's also a way to double or triple 
highlight things in green and blue at the same time, if you click the button 
more times. FND2 changes the way find is displayed, also alternatively you can 
ctrl+f to activate FIND. The INFO button displays statistics about how long 
and how many times you have played powder toy, your average and highest FPS, 
and info about the current save. AUTO turns on autosave (left click to set). 
REAL turns on realistic heat mode by savask. DATE changes date and time 
settings, used in the HUD and on save comments. In addition to left clicking, 
right clicking it will toggle displaying time on comments older than a day. 
The rest (SPIN, HEAT, LUA) are explained later in the readme.

Moving Solids
No lag, and it actually works. They are found in the special menu, and you 
can have a maximum of 256 at once. They are drawn the same shape as your 
brush, no matter what shape or size it is. They are very bouncy, and fall 
with gravity. Pressure over 10.0 will destroy them, and if the center 
particle is destroyed, it will fall apart, making really tiny bouncing 
pixels. Go into the fav2 menu and click SPIN to make them able to rotate, now 
enabled by default. Recent version 29 additions allow them to properly move 
around in loop edge mode and to bounce off walls. Version 30 rewrites them 
internally, while paused any moving solids you draw will all be attached as 
one ball (even if they aren't attached physically). This allows you to create  
unique shapes.

Animated LCRY
Found in the powered elements menu. In the decoration editor, 
press left or right to change frames, and paint each frame normally. Press 
Del to delete a frame or press Ctrl+right when going to a new frame to copy 
the old one over to the new one. PSCN activates it, and the speed that it 
changes depends on its temperature. NSCN deactivates it. METL pauses/unpauses
it. If you set the tmp2 of the PSCN or NSCN that (de)activates it, you can 
set which frame ANIM starts or freezes at. Also, you can use the tmp of the 
PSCN to set the delay for the first frame. You can have a maximum of 25 
frames, unless you use the lua command tpt.maxframes(num), where num is the 
new maximum, between 1 and 256. Using that command will reset all existing 
ANIM. If you delete a lot of it at once, the game will freeze for a while to 
free all the allocated memory, just wait and it will keep working.

New Heat Displays
Found in the Fav2 menu. Click the HEAT button once to go 
to automatic display mode, where the hottest temp is always pink, the lowest 
is dark blue, and everything else in between is based off of that. Click it 
again to go into manual heat display. The min and max temps will stop 
changing when you go into this, so it will help if automatic mode flickers 
because of something like CLNE(FIRE) constantly changing the max temp. If 
you right click the  button, it will ask you to enter the new maximum and 
minimum temp. Enter the temperatures in Celsius. It will change the display 
mode into manual automatically after this.

Powered Elements
All powered elements are now activated instantly. When 
you draw a powered element, a flag is set which causes it to be instantly 
activated. Saves loaded from official TPT don't have this set, so won't act 
this way. You can always use the prop tool to set the flags to 0 to go back 
to the old way.

Lua Code
Put a lua script in luacode.txt and click the LUA button in the 
FAV2 menu. It will change the script into INDI and put it in the top left 
corner. It will then run the code once, so if you want it to run every frame, 
use tpt.register_step. When you save it in a save or stamp, it will run every 
time you open it. The code currently gets embeded into some INDI in the top 
left corner, which can be deleted after loading the save. The code is also 
written to newluacode.txt for inspection before you click the confirmation 
prompt to run the code. There is virus protection, it won't allow you to run 
functions that can be abused. It is recommended to still check the code anyway 
so that you know what it does. Note that this feature is very old and 
outdated, most new and interesting scripts use functions that haven't been 
whitelisted yet.

Custom HUDs
Inside the HUD2 menu you can click on HUD2 to make a customized HUD. By 
default the mod has a custom HUD on that fixes many issues of the original 
HUD (but these fixes are in TPT now). You can also customize the original HUD 
too (toggled with HUD button), and both debug mode HUDs. Theoretically, you 
could have 4 HUDs saved at once, and the HUD2 menu will edit whichever is 
enabled at the time. After clicking HUD2, there are more submenus. RSET will 
reset all of the HUDs back to their default values. CORD lets you toggle 
options related to the second row in the debug HUD. INFO lets you change 
options related to the uper right line. UI lets you change the things 
displayed in the upper left. Most buttons in these submenus are toggles, but 
anything ending in # brings up an input box and allows you to set how many 
decimal places things like pressure and temperature are displayed to.

Tabs
Tabs are shown in the 'T' quickoption on the upper right. clicking it toggles 
showing tabs, you can also hold control to view the tab list. Tabs are 
basically alternate simulations, which save everything including pressure and 
current save info. A few really advanced settings may not be saved, as behind 
the scenes it is simply saving a stamp. They aren't simulated when you aren't 
looking at them but still have uses. To save the current tab to disk, press 
ctrl+s. You can then use the reload button from this point, even without an 
account or looking at a save from the save server. You can really stop here 
with the tab feature, and only use a single tab for reloading, but there is a 
lot more. To create a new tab, press ctrl+n or click the '+' icon in the tab 
menu. Your previous tab will be saved. When hovering over tabs it will 
display a thumbnail preview and the name of the save so you can quickly 
identify them. Right clicking on a tab will delete it.
Two obscure features to note: If you on the main tpt screen and you open a 
save from the tpt website, it will open it in a new tab instead of launching 
a new instance of tpt. Also, if your game crashes for any reason, it will 
save your current tab and restart TPT automatically with all of your previous 
tabs intact.

Console
The console has been redone to fix many issues the original one had. Text 
will no longer overlap, it properly wraps text on both the input and output 
sides, allowing you to see overly long commands. You can drag the line in the 
middle of the console to adjust how much room either side gets. When typing a 
command the input will also wrap around, and you can type or paste up to 1024 
characters. In addition, console output is saved to powder.pref so you can 
see what previous commands returned. Another feature (which is very outdated 
just like lua code in saves) is the ability to tab complete console commands. 
If you type "tpt.set_pr" it will recognize the command you tried to use and 
show in grey what will be completed when you press tab.
Not implemented yet are: syntax highlighting like tpt++ recently got, 
a scrollbar, and unlimited input / output lengths.

Save Preview
This may look a lot different than the default TPT, because tpt++ overhauled 
the save preview itself when it was redone in c++. My mod may not have 
avatars or a scrollbar yet, but it does have other cool features. Comment 
scrolling works with the scrollwheel on your mouse, or the '[' and ']' keys. 
There are no 'pages' like in tpt++, it's just a continuous stream of comments. 
It will attempt to display the page number tpt would have on bottom, but at 
the moment it can't properly display the maximum number of pages. To the right 
of each name is the date and time each comment was posted. You can edit how 
this is displayed with the DATE option in the fav2 menu. If you click it, it 
will toggle showing User ID's instead. Clicking the 'Submit' button without 
anything in the textbox will reload the comments.
Left clicking a username will append their nick to the end of the textbox to 
make it easier to reply to their comment without having to type out the 
username. Shift-clicking their username will open a search for all of their 
public saves. Ctrl-clicking their username will open their profile on the TPT 
website.



------------------------------------------------------------------------------
------------------------------------History-----------------------------------
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The original point of this mod was the favorite elements menu back in version 
1. It was intended to do everything my badly written lua script did, because 
several users such as @MasterMind555 encouraged me to start developing tpt. 
It was very ambitious, I barely knew how to code and claimed version 2 would 
have moving solids, something everyone said was impossible. Version 1.0 
was released on October 18th, 2011, with the Version 2.0 moving solids update 
shortly after. I added many random suggestions and almost all the current 
elements within the few months after the original release. Over time, I have 
fixed a lot of the original things (moving solids back then were hollow and 
had bad collisions) as I figured out what I was doing.

At some point, I decided to add @BoredInSchool's fusion suggestion into my 
mod. Everyone loved it, and I decided to try and get some of my code into the 
official game. After two pull requests filled with fusion, lots of bug fixes, 
and other small features, I was unexpectedly made a moderator. A few months 
later I was given access to the repo to help fix all the bugs in the c++ 
rewrite. Three times before I have stopped work on this for periods of a month 
or more, but I always come back to it and keep it up to date as new tpt 
versions are released. Originally, I had planned to port my mod into the c++ 
rewrite in hopes it would be merged into official. Eventually I realized that 
was never going to happen, and in fact I didn't want this in official. I like 
being able to do whatever I want without having others tell me what needs to 
be done and what can't be put in. I went into full backporting mode, putting 
all the missing features from the c++ rewrite into my mod so that you 
wouldn't miss any features when using this. Even though i'm really busy with 
college, I am still doing this today, and now plan to rewrite a few parts 
into c++ myself so that I can add more features.

Sometime in the middle, I thought the idea of having a special update server 
would be cool. @mniip offered to host it for me, with his new server. I 
quickly put something together that even had in game changelogs, and he did 
the server side script. It worked great, this helped keep people interested 
in the mod, because they didn't need to redownload every new version, and 
eventually get tired of it. Now, a lot of people actually use this as an 
entire tpt replacement (including me).




------------------------------------------------------------------------------
----------------------------------Changelogs----------------------------------
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Version 1.0: http://min.us/lbuOtsPdEMibD2
Original release, with most of the stuff from my Lua Mod

Version 2.0: http://min.us/lzFWVBYhl5Xfi
Now with MOVING SOLIDS!

Version 2.1: http://min.us/lbvyL8rkNJlcni
Latest source + source now on github

Version 3.0: http://min.us/lbjHzEoxmXAFzP
Added Animated LCRY. Moving solids and ANIM save when you make a stamp or 
save.

Version 4.0: http://min.us/l2FzyIz4AYBS9
Moving solids can rotate now, disabled by default, 
go into the Fav2 menu and click SPIN to allow them to rotate. 
Also added Indestructible insulator and One time wire, 
and did some fixes to FIND and BALL.

Version 5.0: http://min.us/lbh6DDTJzdNFU3
Added automatic and manual heat displays. In automatic heat display, 
the highest temp is pink and the lowest is dark blue. In Manual, 
you can decide which temp is displayed as the hottest color and which is 
the lowest, and everything in between will be based off that. 
I also added powdered portals and virus/cure, and updated to the latest 
source to get rid of the update box.

Version 5.1: http://min.us/lDCKmb9BdFazn
Updated to latest version, added activator, which can be used in creations 
to prevent people from sparking buttons until specific times. Also, re-added 
in buttons to switch to the different modes, except blob and heat gradient.

Version 6.0: http://min.us/lUgHNsGndzdbh
Added powered invisible, blob and heat gradient display, portal effects, and 
wifi/portal lines. Also added the old lua console commands: sound(must be 
enable with a shortcut), load, bubble, reset_temp, and reset_pressure(works 
with the same parameters reset_velocity does). There are three new lua 
commands: get_pressure, get_gravity, and maxframes(sets the number of frames 
ANIM can have when created, 1-256). Also, render_ui uses the old cmode 
pictures in color.Note: the button keys to change display modes, blob & heat 
gradient display, portal effects (Simon forgot the wifi/portal lines), and 
new icons all got into the official version. Not much of this code was 
actually written by me, a lot of it was taken from github after Simon deleted 
it. He said he might add in more stuff that I wrote later.

Version 7.0: http://min.us/lK604TH6bFNV4
Added readme. Faster drawing and deleting of elements. Added RAZR, an element
heavier than all other elements. Added new button in FAV2 menu that can make
saves compatible with the latest beta or release version and able to be
published. It makes sure that you don't add in any new elements not in those
versions. PINV+PHOT = ELEC. SPNG drags along other particles with it, even 
solids that normally can't move.

Version 8.0: http://min.us/muN92vQxC
Wall names display in the hud. New lua functions: get_wall and create_wall. A 
New Wall: ERASEALL. It can erase walls, signs, and particles all at once. 
Most powered elements drawn in this version are now activated instantly. Set 
the tmp to zero to keep the old way of activating. New properties that can be 
set using the lua console: CLONE (0x40000), BREAKABLECLONE (0x80000), 
POWERED (0x100000), and INDESTRUCTIBLE (0x20000). Use the first 3 together to 
make different kinds of clone using elements. The last one makes things 
invincible to every element, and even prevents it from being destroyed in 
reactions. You can make things like indestructible WATR or METL. Lua code can 
now be saved. Put it in luacode.txt, and it will be saved and run in 
stamps/saves. Press up in the console and then enter to load an example.

Version 9: http://min.us/muN92vQxC
Fix loading some saves and fixed crash with HUD. Removed update button 
permanently and updated to newer source. Also, decoration color is now drawn 
on stamps in the stamp browser. 2 new quickoptions: Newtonian gravity and 
ambient heat. Custom HUDs. To change one, click the HUD2 button in the second 
favorites menu and different options will come up. You can change all 4 of 
the original HUD's and it will save and be loaded the next time you start. 
Also added a few more options not in any normal HUD.

Version 10
Added display mode toggles, press Ctrl+ a number key besides 4 and 8 to 
toggle the main feature of that display temporarily. Added more statistics. 
Fixed some moving solid bugs and made rotation save. Updated to newest 
source, which includes the new save format, but you can choose to save in the 
old format instead. You can delete corrupted stamps now. Fix three powered 
electronic related bugs, all electronics should work like they're supposed 
to now. Added a decoration smudge (blend) tool

Version 11 - 2/21/12
Added PROP2 tool, you can draw properties on with the normal brush now. 
Improved decoration drawing speed and added a hex value display and floodfill 
to it. Changed menus of some elements. Added a new test icon for the favorites 
menu. Added an update check, if there is a new version, you can use the link 
in the message of the day to download a zip file containing the next version 
of this mod. Added COND, only conducts to other COND with same tmp within a 
tmp2 radius. Added PWHT, flood fill heats the element above it to it's temp. 
Use PROP on it to make it create other properties. Added rechargeable battery, 
set the tmp of battery to the maximum charge it can hold, METL to charge, 
PSCN/NSCN to turn on/off. Some other stuff not listed here.

Version 12 - 3/2/12
Added tabs. Hit the tab button in the quickoptions menu or press Ctrl to show 
a menu of all the tabs you have open. You can switch between them, or open a 
new one (what you are doing is copied over). Tabs are saved and not simulated 
when you are not using them. Press shift to save pressure in stamps and saves, 
RCTRL to keep it when transforming stamps. Added fusion. see thread 12901 for 
more info (http://powdertoy.co.uk/Discussions/Thread/View.html?Thread=12901). 
Added realistic mode, not by me and not too noticeable. Autosave button, 
disabled by default. If Powder Toy unexpectedly closes, the next time you 
open it your work will appear. Fix decoration tools.

Version 12.1 - 3/3/12
Make text say version 12, not 10. Remove update check and replace it with 
another link. Fix crash when you click the LUA button and luacode.txt was 
missing

Version 13 - 3/18/12
Fix glitch when VOID-like elements eat particles. Changes and fixes to FIND 
tool, can also now find walls. Ctrl+F to quickly find and Ctrl+S to save the 
current tab/create a backup in case of a crash. Shift+R reloads the current 
tab without saving, Ctrl+Q then clicking yes completely exits from anywhere, 
and Ctrl+O opens the saves catalogue. You can now edit alpha in the deco 
editor. Alpha is displayed in (OPS) stamps, all wall types drawn in all 
stamps. save/load more things in powder.pref. Now uses static Libraries, no 
dll's are needed. Some fusion changes to make it more controllable.

Version 14 - 4/1/12
Lua code in saves run in a limited environment without access to dangerous 
functions that could cause a virus. Prevent infinite loops in Lua, they will 
exit after 3 seconds (you can click cancel to let it continue running though).
Oxygen fusion added. 4 New commands: tpt.clear_sim(), tpt.restore_defaults(),
tpt.reset_elements(). Moving solid ability added to all elements, use 
tpt.enable_moving_solids() to make all solids move like BALL does. That last 
one was an April fools joke, if you couldn't tell already.

Version 14.1 - 4/7/12
Really update to latest source. Fix infinite fusion and burning oxygen. CLNE 
and PCLN are indestructible, BCLN and PBCN break with DEST and SING again. 
BHOL, VENT, and VOID are not destroyed by DEST or SING now. New lua commands: 
tpt.draw(or fill)circle(x,y,rx,ry,r,g,b,a) and tpt.indestructible(string name 
or particle number). An optional argument to that is a 0, which makes it 
destructible again. Added Easter egg hunt, press 'e' to start. Removed in 
version 15.

Version 14.2 - 4/30/12
update to latest source again. reversible pipe - spark with PSCN to reverse, 
NSCN to unreverse. This mod is temporarily discontinued, but will be started 
again in May/June.

Version 15 - 5/22/12
Fix some deco editor bugs. Element descriptions fade in and out nicely.Fixes 
to the old menu, the favorites menu is always drawn on bottom when using that. 
Ability to make custom lua graphics functions. Fix glitch in HUD (life 
wouldn't show up). You can scroll through comments on saves, but only 10 at 
most are able to show up. User ID's are now drawn on comments. You can write 
in color now. Use Ctrl  + one of these letters: w (white), g (grey), o 
(orange), r (red), l (red-orange), b (blue), and t (light blue). Colors can 
go in comments, tags, and save names and be seen by all tpt users. They can't 
go in signs or local saves names (colors are removed). Update to 79.2 source.

Version 16 - 6/14/12
VOID and PVOD can be set to only eat their ctype (or only not eat it if their 
tmp is 1). Local save deletion inside tpt. Fix saving as release/beta version, 
fix many saving problems. Fix SING explosion. lua functions can be auto-
completed when writing commands in the console (ex. type "tpt.s" and press 
tab, it changes to "tpt.set_property("). Works with many common lua console 
commands/things. Lightning can be cloned and it's initial direction is 
affected by Newtonian gravity too. Right HUD always drawn on top. Moving 
solids are solid inside and much less glitchy. Also, use tpt.moving_solid() 
to allow any element to move like moving solid.

Version 16.1 - 6/18/12
Fix saving as release version, fix saves with LIGH in them. Fix PIPE exploding 
when energy particles went in it. Front page labeled as page 1, not page 0. 
Up to 100 comments on saves can be loaded now, they are loaded as you scroll 
down. Moving solids don't collide with particles they can go through. Fix 
moving solids causing stacking and BHOL being created. Update to latest source 
again (still 80.4) which fixes some other bugs.

Version 16.2 - 6/18/12
Fixed saving saves publicly, remove ability to create colored text.

Version 16.3 - 6/25/12
Make Some lua console shortcuts less annoying. Fix compression during fusion 
and with moving sponge. Fix moderator name colors, also, your name is yellow 
and save creators is red. Update to latest source.

Version 17.0 - 7/5/12
Many minor graphical fixes to the HUD. FIND can find 3 things at once. Left 
selected element is red, right selected is blue, and alternate selected is 
green. LCtrl/RCtrl/Shift + F to toggle these. Also, a new FIND2 button which 
toggles an alternate find mode more similar to my lua script, where first 
everything is dimmed, and then a dot is put over what you're finding. Click 
a user ID to switch to showing comment post times and dates instead. Use the 
DATE button to change the format. Date format also applies to the HUD now, if 
you chose to display it. The areas for stamp saving, copying, and cutting can 
be drawn backwards now. Fix first comment on saves not showing. Fix crash bug 
with powered electronics and moving solids, ANIM activated instantly now too. 
New flood-fill brush shape. Many speed improvements by skipping unneeded 
things. WOOD and PLNT look burnt when hot and frozen when cold. VIRS has a 
small chance of destroying CURE. saving stamps looks better & you can delete 
multiple stamps at once with Ctrl+red delete button. Many other minor fixes 
and changes.

Version 18 - 8/2/12
Fix bug where all solids could move like SPNG, fix low pressure transition not 
working. Fix lava's ctype getting changed. You can now highlight text in 
textboxes and copy/delete just that. SING with a tmp2 of 1 emits gravity 
instead of pressure (still creates tons of pressure anyway), and with a tmp2 
of 2 does both. Antimatter's ctype and tmp act tike VOID's (eats it's ctype). 
Right click the reload button to go back to open_ui. Fix moving solids not 
showing in HUD. Add scrollbar to scrolling menus. Fix VACU/VENT. Limit the 
FPS everywhere, so tpt doesn't use 100% CPU when you're not in the main game. 
Tons of new lua commands, you can pass nothing into functions that set a 
variable to return that variable instead. When changing the screen size, you 
can change it even if your screen if too small if you want. Improvements to 
open_ui, you can click a username to search for their saves, and shift click 
to see their profile.

Version 18.1 8/7/12
Fix crash when saving invalid elements (that you shouldn't have anyway). Add 
an icon to the deco menu and element search ui. Disable reversible pipe on non 
mod saves. Improvements to the deco menu to make it feel more like the editor, 
fix middle click to get decocolor inside of it. Fix graphics function crash. 
Fixes to PWHT so that it works and saves better. Fix instantly powered 
electronics not saving. Combine PROP & PROP2. To use old prop, flood fill with 
Ctrl + Shift. Fix TRON. GEL and SPNG can absorb water from elements and leaves 
behind what the element was mixed with. (ex. PSTE + SPNG -> CLST). Ask to run 
lua code in saves, instead of just running automatically.

Version 19 8/22/12
Update to version 82, with all the things I added to that including powered 
pipe. Fix comments with '/n' in them not displaying correctly. Fix BRAY/EMBR 
graphics (PMODE_GLOW), make it easier to find stickmen with FIND tool. Add 
tpt.outside_airtemp, sets the outside ambient heat temperature. More custom 
HUD options, plus fix a few bugs with it. Fix H2 and O2 not burning at high 
temperatures (from Triclops200 in tpt++). Edge loop option.

Version 19.1 9/2/12
Fix some stickmen spawning glitches (still in tpt though). Fast quit option 
(found in the simulation options). Compatibility with saves made in tpt++ 
(fixes walls). Fix deco not showing when drawing on ANIM. The extra 1st 
page saves option stays on like the other search options do. Add things from 
tpt version 83.0 (DTEC, things from my pull request).

Version 19.2 10/5/12
Allow longer comments on saves, and the comment box resizes to fit. Allow 
longer signs to be loaded in saves and make the sign creation ui larger to 
allow you to make signs the size they are in tpt++. Fix clicking usernames on 
the bottom row of saves not working. Add some minor simulation changes made 
in tpt and tpt++.

Version 19.3 10/19/12
Fix minor problem where PBCN and PLCN wouldn't clone until a frame after they 
were activated. Fix really long comments not loading, the comments not being 
drawn to the very bottom, bugs with the resizing comment box, jump when 
scrolling past certain comments, and scrolling when typing certain letters in 
the comment box. Use {t:id|text} to link to forum threads and {s:query|text} 
to start a save search (added by me in tpt++ first). Added tpt++ elements: 
DMG and TSNS. Fix being unable to save PIPE sometimes (error when saving, 
invalid element). Fix some moving solid crashes. Fix HUD showing incorrect 
values with double scale enabled. Don't load selected elements or render mode 
in saves anymore. Fix tpt bug that will cause you to get logged out sometimes 
when you shouldn't. Fix another tpt bug where Newtonian gravity wouldn't get 
reloaded after reloading a save - thanks to jacksonmj for the fix. Make VIRS 
last longer. Enable the # of votes icon on all saves for everyone.

Version 19.4 11/3/12
Remove DISPLAY_EFFE from render options. Fix clicking the copy id button 
exiting the save preview. Fix being able to click usernames and id's from 
under the comment box (again). Shift-clicking a username from the my own 
section to search for their saves will work correctly now. Fix shift/ctrl 
clicking moderators' not searching correctly. Increase number of comments that 
can be loaded to 200. Add in VIBR and BVBR from tpt++ (still not the final 
version, 19.4.1 will be soon). Fix PROP_NEUTPENETRATE. Fix bug causing switch 
to act differently in some rare cases. Fix tools menusection having an extra 
empty space in old menu ('o') mode. Add 'Empty' edge mode option.

Version 19.4.1 11/5/12
Fix save as current name and improve how saving works (will allow public / 
mod saves easily now). Put in the final version of VIBR. Make the thumbnails 
look as good as I can get them, tpt++'s thumbnail renderer isn't as good, so 
new thumbnails won't look as good. Add sensors menu icon.

Version 20.0 12/6/12
Fix DTEC and TSNS not detecting energy particles. Make pressing enter not 
open the save in the save preview, deleting the comment. Make an error while 
sending a comment (like posting too frequently) not delete the comment. Fix not 
being able to remove convo notifications. Fix VIRS+water equalization. Fix any 
differences with SWCH and other electronics from tpt that was breaking saves. 
Some minor simulation updates from tpt++. Add back color presets to deco 
editor, fix some minor bugs with the editor. Add in updater! Thanks to mniip 
for the space on his server. This readme probably won't update with future 
updates, but you can still see it on the mod's thread and on github.

Version 20.1 12/7/12
Fix no fire effects showing after clearing the sim or opening any save. Fix 
the 'open; button from the website (if you have this 'installed' with ctrl+i)

Version 20.2 12/21/12
Support both tpt and tpt++ readme's at the same time. Many tpt++ bug fixes to 
elements like TRON, GLAS, TSNS, SLTW, and WARP. Hold control when selecting a 
stamp to not reorder it. Change destructibility of clones and voids to match 
tpt's (although I changed it because I liked my ways better). Fix ANIM pausing 
and improve the editing of it. Fix really old tpt bug where thumbnails may not 
load in the save browser, make them load much faster. Send version info and 
username to the update server when checking.

Version 20.3 12/23/12
Fix possible crash glitch caused by my tpt++ STKM eaten by CONV fix

Version 20.4 1/8/13
Fix freeze and remove message when it can't find the update server. The 
updater will probably continue working when the server is back up. Simulation 
updates from tpt++ (DTEC detecting GOL fix, VOID/BHOL eat LIGH). Paused 
checkbox when saving.

Version 21.0 1/25/13
Change login to tpt++ method, if you login again, this allows comments to be 
submitted like it, meaning no "posting to frequently" message anymore. Reload 
comments after submitting one. Highlightable comments. Deco menu must be 
clicked to open (like tpt++ will be), or press b. New tpt++ elements before 
they are out (possibly incomplete): CRAY, PSTN, FRME. All the tpt++ lua api's 
except for interface, lua scripts using the elements api will work now this 
means. Fix '[' / ']' keys not scrolling comments when not logged in. An option 
to turn off updates, change the update server to check mniip.com instead, or 
to just turn them off completely. Fix things being invisible on first startup. 
Change version number to 85.0, now pretends to be tpt++.

Version 21.1 1/31/13
Fix excessive stacking bug and weird problems with particle movement, that 
was creating many problems. Fix copying from comments usually not working. 
Update this mod's github link in the motd. Fix cause of infinite pressure 
bug caused by assigning large hotair values with lua. Update PSTN and FRME to
current tpt++ version.

Version 21.2 2/1/13
Fix crash when trying to submit another comment before the comments have 
reloaded. Fix error messages not being considered errors. Fix updating 
when using mniip.com update server (change back to default IP address to 
update)

Version 21.3 2/15/13
Increase zoom to default tpt++ size. Fix crash when one of the first 7 
comments is REALLY long. Fix crash when loading deleted saves with comments. 
Fix negative votes display bug and next page arrow showing when it shouldn't. 
Fix setting deco color with tpt.set_property. DEST won't move clone elements 
anymore. Don't load edge mode in saves anymore. Memory leak fixes. Allow 
saving of new elements, since official version 86 is out now.

Version 21.4 2/18/13
A small CRAY fix from version 86.1.

Version 22.0 3/18/13
Fix some remaining memory leaks tpt had. Update PSTN and CRAY to the latest 
changes (PSTN's ctype sets stopper elememt, FRME tmp 1 is non sticky). tpt++ 
changes to ACEL, DCEL, and NEUTPASS changes too. tpt++ sim.partPosition and 
sim.partID lua api methods. More constants for mod version info. Fix large 
comments not being drawn at all. motd swaps between mine and real every time 
it is shown. remove bounds check in all elements since it isn't needed.

Version 22.1 5/5/13
Fix NEUT not going through INVS. A few updates to CRAY and PSTN from tpt++. 
Fix bomb not destroying PBCN. Fix middle click in the deco editor. More fixes 
to comment scrolling. Fix setting falldown property with lua. Add the 3 new 
tpt++ elements and some more changes made to elements in tpt++.

Version 23.0 5/25/13
A ton of improvements to the console / lua, including all the fixes made in 
the last tpt++ version (implicit returns / tostrings, rewrite of event 
registration, multiline input, etc.). Better tpt.log, can log to the main 
screen now. Fix a PROP crash and allow up/down arrow to scroll properties. 
Fix broken motd with no internet. Many simulation updates from tpt++ (CFLM 
changes, loop narrow changes, faster GOL, stickmen rocket boots), also all 
the recent description changes and menusection changes. Remove OTWR and COND 
from the menu. Some other things from tpt++ like bluescreens and saving 
window position. Way better console, there is a dragable dividing line 
between them and results will never overlap with the commands. Textboxes can 
also be resizable, and console commands / output is highlightable now. Also 
command history is saved / loaded to powder.pref, and a few other fixes to 
some other interfaces. Increase maximum stamp pages to 25. A lot of fixes 
and changes to textboxes, you can double / triple click them like text in 
other programs.

Version 23.1 6/2/13
Fix almost irreversible infinite crashing loop with the new bluescreens. They 
would try to nicely reload your work after the crash, but when it was the save 
that crashed it, it would constantly restart and keep crashing, and be very 
hard to stop. Fix crash with LIGH :P. Fix a bunch of small bugs with textboxes 
and labels from the last update, including multiple comments being selected at 
once, highlighting errors when clicking a name to reply, and bugs when trying 
to defocus the auto-focused textbox in the console.

Version 23.1 (build 17) 6/3/13
Fix weird PRTO crash on save 1214884. Fix glitch where BOMB was set off by but 
wouldn't destroy CLNE.

Version 23.1 (build 18) 6/3/13
Fix all the textboxes in the deco editor being focused by default. Fix bug 
where if you left the deco editor in certain ways, you couldn't click or use 
the keyboard

Version 24.0 7/12/13
Decrease tool strength by half, holding ctrl slows it more and holding shift 
speeds it up. Re-arrange tools menu a little and update the tool and wall 
descriptions. A ton of simulation updates and bugfixes from tpt++. Change 
internal version number to 88.0 (doesn't affect saving). ctrl+z works better 
and goes back to the last time you drew something or opened a save. Overhaul 
of tabs. They now save more info inside them, and they have their own 
thumbnailsand names. Right clicking a tab will delete it, and you can use the 
reloadbutton to reload a tab. Ctrl+s to save it and set a new reload point, 
ctrl+n tostart a new tab, 't' to open / close the tabs menu. If installed, 
hitting "open"on the website will open the save in a new tab. Fix 
tpt.moving_solid. Fix issue where multiple comments could be highlighted at 
once in save preview and console. A bunch of fixes relating to walls and 
photons with flood fill. Time enabled by default in HUD.

Version 24.0 (build 20) 7/14/13
Windows build to fix the bug where you couldn't hold down and draw conductive
wall, and blob mode would always be on if you had fire mode on when quitting.

Version 24.0 (build 21) 7/15/13
Fix crash when turning on newtonian gravity with the quickoption

Version 25.0 10/24/13
Yes this mod is still alive. It was just on a few month break :P. Large 
internal rewrites, some by jacksonmj, some by me. Elements and element drawing 
code, menu code, brush code, and some other related things were all redone 
(partially to completely). Move around a few elements. Fix !set type and !set 
ctype sometimes not working. Specific delete now activated by 'Delete' or 
ctrl+semicolon. Many simulation updates from tpt++, including PROT and 
official VIRS. Add Comment scrolling velocity. Fix not being able to save 
local saves with mod elements.

Version 25.1 10/29/13
Fix possible crash when using the same preference file as tpt. Add page number 
to save preview. Fix incorrect gas/explosive menu icons. Fix VIRS graphics. 
Fix most holes in rotating moving solids, enable rotation by default. Update 
internal version number to 89.0.274

Version 25.1 (build 24) 11/11/13
Fix some VIRS saves not opening. Fix moving solids sometimes not drawing. Fix 
stickmen not respawning. Fix crash when ctrl+alt+clicking. In textboxes, 
Ctrl+delete deletes one word and shift+arrow keys highlights text. Red DEUT 
fix from tpt. Start on merging some major optimizations from cracker64. 

Version 26.0 (build 25) 12/17/13
A ton of optimizations to almost every element, by cracker64. Report anything 
broken to me. Fix crash when starting game in deco section. Fix crash when 
saving local saves on linux. Fix clones cloning double. New Element: Gravitons 
(GRVT), creates Newtonian Gravity. Comment box turns red when your comment 
gets too long. New HUD option for FILT modes, change default HUD options 
slightly. sim.elementCount; some rewrites to portals, stickmen, and WIFI from 
jacksonmj. Fix save browser glitching when shift-clicking a username in the 
save preview and then opening one of their saves.

Version 26.0 (build 26) 12/18/13
Fix pmap errors breaking a lot of things including SWCH. Fix GVRT description.

Version 26.1 (build 27) 12/21/13
Internal changes to how things are sparked. Fix crash when energy particles
go into portals. Fix ctype not saving correctly. Realistic heat is glitchy,
so no longer load that from powder.pref. Also attempt to make it less glitchy.

Version 26.2 (build 28) 1/9/14
pavg option in HUD. Fix ambient heat. Simulation updates from tpt++. Add a
button to report bugs, feedback, and suggestions. More major rewrites. This
time; drawing elements, walls, tools, and deco tools have all been redone to
be neater and separate from each other. Wall IDs and Tool IDs are now separate 
from element IDs, so the max element cap has also been increased to 256.

Version 26.3 1/16/14
Fix steamline drawing and floodfill crash. Fix glitch where ARAY didn't spark 
INST. Possible element search crash fix. Fix STKM(AIR) blowing ability.

Version 26.4 2/3/14
Rewrites / fixes to Tool, box, and ellipse brush drawing. Fix possible crash
when shifting stamps, and make ctrl key not needed. Lots of crash fixes for
some lua functions. Fix STKM2 spawning with really high life (probably). New
bug icon. PROP remembers what property you set last. Fix things coming out
the wrong side of portals. Fix some bugs with clicking after exiting out of
certain interfaces.

Version 26.4 (build 31) 2/5/14
Fix local saving not working when not logged in. Simulation api functions for
drawing particles / walls (intended for the next version really ...). Fix
possible crash when pasting text in linux.

Version 27.0 3/12/14
TPT multiplayer script by cracker64 embeded inside. Works much better than
the original, but still has some major syncing bugs and crashes. Add in all
missing lua api functions, except for interface. Add ADD/SUB/MUL/DIV deco
tools, fix deco tool drawing bugs. Fix all STKM spawning / life bugs for real
this time. PINV bugfixes. Fix mouse handling bugs involving the zoom window
and the screen edges. Wall brush sizes redone to match tpt++. Fix PPIP in HUD,
and PIPE -> PRTI transfer bug. Fix FIND. Lots of Lua api fixes, updates from
tpt++, and other generic bug fixes.

Version 27.1 3/13/14
TPTMP updates to fix some syncing / other issues

Version 27.2 3/23/14
Fix random stickmen spawning. Fix flood fill only working on first click. Redo
some stuff related to saving mod elements to be less annoying. Rewrite toolTips
(work exactly the same). Update TPTMP to version .7 by cracker64. Fix glitches
when sparks go through portal breaking some saves. Fix error when loading
really old saves with FAN wall.

Version 27.2 (build 35) 3/25/14
Fix mouse cursor not displaying in zoom window. Fix crash with deco presets in
deco editor. Fix key repeat in TPTMP.

Version 27.3 3/31/14
TPT element suggestions get ignored far too often, that needs to changed. If
enough people suggest an element, it must be good, and therefore should be added.
That's why this version adds 15 NEW ELEMENTS! That more then doubles the current
mod elements. I've added long suggested elements such as breakable diamond (DMD2),
broken diamond (BDMD), DIRT, MUD, POOP, and blood (BLOD). I've also added some
gems that never got noticed, such as dinosaur knee liquid (DKLQ, thanks to
therocketeer), coconut (COCO), and disappearing metal (DIMT). Also included: COCJ,
LOLZ2, BATT, CMD, OBMA, and STKW. Special thanks to CatAnimation for suggesting
many of these useful elements. ... Oh, and I fixed the zoom window bugs.

Version 27.3 (build 37) 4/2/14
Remove april fools joke (15 elements from last version). Bug fixes in the last
version: fix cursor lines / stamps not appearing in zoom window, Fix particle
order issues with box drawing, Save ctrl+z snapshot before pasting stamps.

Version 28.0 5/3/14
More simulation rewrites/cleanups. Fix bug where things may stack and form
BHOL at the top of the screen. RAZR goes through GEL and kills stickmen. Fix
bug where CRAY wouldn't spark INST. Update TPTMP to point to new server and
fix a few bugs / errors with it. Simulation updates and bugfixes from tpt++.

Version 28.1 5/8/14
Fix crash when using ETRD. Fix out of screen errors in TPTMP. Update
Bluescreen message.

Version 28.1 (build 40) 5/9/14
Fix crash with Newtonian Gravity, by compiling on the update server instead of 
on my new computer.

Version 29.0 6/2/14
New Element: DRAY. Replicates a line of particles in front of it. Modify with
.tmp (copyLength), .tmp2 (spaces after copy), and .ctype (element to end copy
with when .tmp isn't set). New Wall: AIRBLOCK. Allows all particles but not
air. New build system: SCons. Also NEW: mac version, needs testing but will
hopefully work on all OS X Versions 10.5+. Fix deco sample with small brush
sizes. Fix incorrect coords when placing zoom window, hide cursor when mouse
is in menus. Fix some crashes with invalid walls/menusections in lua. Update
to latest tpt source, which includes: visual effect for BRAY through FILT,
changes to deco on FILT/PHOT, less overpowered QRTZ bunkers, and fix for TNT
floodfill crash.

Version 29.1 6/4/14
Fix crash when using BRAY. Possibly fix bugs with setting scale.

Version 29.2 7/5/14
Fix scale setting issue on Linux. Update TPTMP to the latest version. Fix
crash with portals. Simulation and interface updates from tpt++. Moving solids
bounce off walls, go through loop edge mode, and are affected by different
gravity modes. Fix zoom window being drawn on incorrect side sometimes. Fix
fullscreen on mac (compiling change).

Version 29.2 (build 44) 7/5/14
Actually update TPTMP to version .72

Version 29.3 8/21/14
Fix possible crash when opening saves with VIRS. Lots of updates from tpt++,
including: new spark graphics and render setting, "open data folder" button,
re-enable deco on old PHOT, make tpt.selected* and tpt.brush* writable, and
some crash fixes. Fix the mac version.

Version 29.4 8/30/14
Update version info to TPT version 90.2, allow GRVT and DRAY in saves.

Version 29.5 9/3/14
Update TPTMP to version .8 (fixes TPTMP)

Version 29.6 9/26/14
Fix FIGH drawing. Fix loop edge mode, also stickmen now loop properly. Fix
stickmen spawning with rocket boots. Stamps can be rotated without holding
ctrl. Update TPTMP to version .82. Fix HUD issues with LAVA and FILT. Add a
'rescan stamps' button in the save browser.




------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------Bugs-------------------------------------
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Can't draw particles when moving solids are on the screen
//None (at least that I know of)




------------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------TODO-------------------------------------
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TODO: '>' means currently being worked on/added next
Redo fav menu ...
Do something about the massively repeated drawing code in Simulation.cpp
make open ui more colorful like tpt++, also fix cut off description in save uploading ui
make buttons look clicked when pressed, moving mouse away will not do clicks, like tpt++ (redo interface)
loading circle in save browser?
redo some sign things and remove regex
Add avatars in game
Ability to follow users using jacksonmj's website
>Add things from tpt++ that look cool, and any new simulation changes it gets

Possible future plans:
customizable settings menu completely, ability to add and read options. (also HUD option settings)
Don't save lua code inside of INDI, since this isn't a lua script anymore
CMND - command element to run old commands
finish what was started and add ability for multiple Simulation*s to run at once?
Things never backported: const* changes, lua panic, regex removal, old/lua syntax highlighting (https://github.com/simtr/The-Powder-Toy/commit/ecf1f0e3917386f087dbe569862bd6486a4b366a), png/bmp saving
ability to hide certain saves (based on things like number of votes, unpublished / published, username, etc.)
